hey guys I'll put one here from Party
Time DJ services with yet another active
speaker review actually the first active
speaker of U of 2015 so happy new year
to all of you DJ's and life sound guys
out there watching my reviews now today
we'll be looking at Samson's brand new
expedition XP 115 a active speaker and
for this I'd like to thank as always my
favorite music store here in Sudbury
Ontario prom music thank you so much
Josh and Bryan for letting me try out
these speakers I really appreciate it
not just my brand new mixer from prom
music the Yamaha mg 12 Xu which I should
be reviewing furiously pretty soon as
soon as I get it out of the box
so anyway having going back to Samson's
XP 115 ate the XP 150 meters from sense
Simpsons expedition line some of you
might actually know Samson's expedition
line I believe they were a smaller
speaker with a small powered and mixer
attached you look kind of like the
Yamaha stage pass or a Fender passport
and those kind of things but the
expedition they decided to add to bigger
models that being the XP one 12a and one
and XP 1 did I say once 112 a and 115 a
so two new models bigger in size and
probably better to do you know handle
events by themselves without needing
sub-woofer reinforcements well for
smaller stuff anyway so anyway basically
the XP 115 a is a 15 inch plus 1 inch
active speaker boasting total 500 watts
I believe that is peak I believe it's
200 or 250 watts RMS to the 15 inch
woofer and 1 inch compression driver
they are fan-cooled now in the mixer
section we have a combination XLR
quarter inch input and output actually
the output is just XLR we have a master
volume control sensitive sensitivity
switch for line and microphone messy
line this trick you're going off during
the mixer while mike is if you want to
plug a mic in directly it applies a lot
more gain which is needed for microphone
amplification so we have the contour on
and off here which basically gives you a
little boost and the hundred Hertz and
twelve kilohertz frequencies just to
make it sound a little bit fatter and a
little bit sweeter great for play
music so these speakers in Canada right
now they're selling at roughly 600 a
pair for the 15s and 500 pair for the
12s which is great considering they have
built-in amplification and they're
actually extremely lightweight the
12-inch coming in 230 pounds and the 15
is coming in at 33 pounds so 33 pounds
for 15-inch speakers just outstanding
material is kind of like it just a
typical plastic the kind of
polypropylene enclosure three handles
one on each side and check this out the
one on top here is actually really cool
because you can just stick your hand
upside down in there and actually I
walked out of the store with one in each
hand 33 pounds is no problem and you do
have these little plastic things here
where you can actually stick the feet of
another expedition if you want to top
them one on top of the other which is
great if safety Knapp to spares and
you're playing on a stage up on
somewhere if you can just stack and one
on top of the other convenient for you
know small parties to or whatnot so
anyway probably the big question so how
do they sound Al and how do they compare
to other speakers at their price points
or even above their price point well
what I can tell you is they sound very
decent that's the thing with you know
affordable active speakers they the
sound is never gone is gone the biggest
variations you're gonna see between the
lower end of the higher end is often the
not only little frequency response or
extension of low frequency response but
also the compression driver the quality
of the compression driver how sweet it
is how crisp it is and how you know how
ear friendly the whole entire speaker is
so what that's one thing I noticed when
comparing you know the the higher end or
more expensive speakers to the lower end
basically is the you know they're not
gonna sound quite as sweet then I'm
gonna go quite as low and another thing
with the sound since you're
unfortunately because they're so compact
and lightweight basically the smaller
size of the box does affect
low-frequency so while they do have some
bass they don't have quite as much bass
as a good bigger better you know 15 inch
but you know we can't really fault them
here because at the price point you do
have to expect certain things that you
can't expect them to perform like
dollars speaker so will Samson a break
here what I can tell you is that they do
sound a lot better the American audio
Els 15a as I reviewed a few months ago
and compared to say my you know the
Costco Edison M mm speaker I actually
found that innocence I'm just a tad
nicer on the top end and have a bit more
bass but you know for most people that
probably say they're comparable what
you're lacking if you're comparing these
to say my the XR 15 s down there which
are you note why I've more than twice
the price if you're losing some of the
you know the resolution the clarity and
the top and under the detail and you're
losing some of the low end as well but
you know for a reduced price you do have
to expect some things not to be as good
as the the higher end speakers that's
why they're at a different price range
for beginner DJ's you know bands are
just starting out and you want to get
your name out there you know for the
beginning DJ if I would have had access
to speakers like this for 300 others a
piece with amplification built in when I
started 25 years ago I would have been
extremely happy and I would have started
my business a lot quicker so DJ's these
days are so lucky to have access to
quality sound because these really
although they're not as good as the
thousand notes because they do still
provide a very good sound a little bit
of EQ I still boosted the top and roll
boosted the lows a little bit and still
got plenty of Ollie before limiting from
these speakers so for most people
beginner DJ sister being grade by
Samsung XP 115 a I have to wrap this up
because my battery is dying but you know
check him out just go in store and have
a listen that's the best they need to do
so this banal boy the Samson's
expedition XP 115 eight and I can't wait
to try out some other you know compare
comparable speakers like the evz LX
series or the alto TS just to see how
they compare like feeling their base is
going to be a little differences in the
sound of the you know compression driver
the amount of base but also in the
weight and size you know so basically go
test them out that's usually the best
way to determine take them to a gig if
you can but I think most people
especially begin a teaser will be very
happy with Samson's expedition XP 115 a
I mean for the price and especially the
weight these are so easy to move it's
unbelievable so hey have a listen to
them and they're gonna through now
cooling with our first speaker review of
2015 with Samson's expedition XP 115 if
you have any questions feel free
answer them honestly as I always do hide
yourselves a great day